---
title: Nuki Bridge
description: Instructions on how to integrate a Nuki Bridge to control their Smart Lock devices.
ha_category:
  - Lock
ha_release: 0.38
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@pschmitt'
  - '@pvizeli'
  - '@pree'
ha_domain: nuki
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - lock
  - sensor
ha_config_flow: true
ha_dhcp: true
ha_integration_type: hub
---

The **Nuki Bridge** {% term integration %} allows you to control [Nuki Smart Locks](https://nuki.io/en/smart-lock/) via a [Nuki Bridge](https://help.nuki.io/hc/en-001/sections/360004474718-Bridge). 
Many Nuki Smart Locks also support [local integrations](#local-integration-alternatives) using a different integration. 

## Prerequisites

To add a Nuki bridge to your installation, you need to connect the device to wifi, enable developer mode and define a port and an access token. This can be achieved using the [Android app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.nuki) or [iPhone app](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1044998081). Go to manage my devices, and select the bridge or wifi enabled smart lock and connect to the device. Turn on the HTTP API and check the details in the screen. Please note that the API token should be 6-20 characters long, even though the app allows you to set a longer one.
For faster updates, the callback function of the Nuki bridge can be used. This requires your Home Assistant to be reachable via HTTP by the Nuki bridge, as HTTPS is not supported by the Nuki bridge.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Host:
  description: Hostname or IP address of your Nuki bridge, e.g., `192.168.1.25`.
Port:
  description: Port of the Nuki bridge HTTP API, default is `8080`.
Token:
  description: Token to authenticate against the Nuki bridge HTTP API.
Use an encrypted token for authentication:
  description: Use an encrypted token for API calls to the bridge. This should only be deactivated if you experience issues with the API (authentication, etc). The default is `True`.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Actions

### Action `nuki.lock_n_go`

This will first unlock, wait a few seconds (20 by default) then re-lock. The wait period can be customized through the app.
See the [Nuki Website](https://nuki.io/en/support/smart-lock/sl-features/locking-with-the-smart-lock/) for more details about this feature.

| Data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s Nuki Locks.
| `unlatch` | yes | Boolean - Whether to unlatch the door when first opening it.

### Action `nuki.set_continuous_mode`

This action allows you to enable or disable the "Continuous Mode" feature of Nuki Openers. This is similar to the Ring-to-Open feature that is mapped to "lock/unlock", except that it doesn't have a time limit - as long as this mode is enabled, the door will open when the buzzer button is pressed, similar to how it works at e.g. a doctor's office or other business during the day. On other Nuki products, this action is a no-op.

| Data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s Nuki Locks.
| `enabled` | yes | Boolean - Set to `true` to enable Continuous Mode, or `false` to disable.

## Events

### Event `nuki_event`

Events generated by Nuki are sent as events of type `nuki_event` with the following content:

| Event data attribute | Description                                |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `type`               | The type of the event. Values: `ring`
| `entity_id`          | The ID of the entity generating the event.

## Local integration alternatives

Many Nuki Smart Locks support local alternatives. Consult the [Nuki website](https://help.nuki.io/hc/en-001/categories/360003042457-Integrations-Services) for an up-to-date list of integration options and supported devices. 

### HomeKit support

The 2nd and 3rd Generation Smart Locks support [HomeKit via Bluetooth](https://help.nuki.io/hc/en-001/articles/19948907390737-Apple-HomeKit-via-Bluetooth) and can directly integrate with Home Assistant through the [HomeKit integration](/integrations/homekit_controller/#adding-a-homekit-device-through-bluetooth).

### MQTT support

The Nuki Smart Lock 3.0 Pro and 4th generation devices support [MQTT]([https://support.nuki.io/hc/en-us/articles/12947926779409-MQTT-support]) and can directly integrate with Home Assistant through [MQTT discovery](/integrations/mqtt/#mqtt-discovery).
Details can be found [here](https://developer.nuki.io/t/mqtt-api-specification-v1-3/17626).

### Matter Support 

Smart Lock Ultra, Smart Lock Pro, Smart Lock Go, Smart Locks of 4th Generation support [Matter](https://help.nuki.io/hc/en-001/sections/14596766576401-Matter) over Thread and can directly integrate with Home Assistant through the [Matter integration](/integrations/matter/#adding-a-matter-device-to-home-assistant).
