---
title: Ohme
description: Instructions to configure the Ohme integration into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Car
  - Sensor
ha_release: 2025.1
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@dan-r'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: ohme
ha_platforms:
  - button
  - diagnostics
  - number
  - select
  - sensor
  - switch
  - time
ha_quality_scale: platinum
ha_integration_type: device
---

The **Ohme** {% term integration %} allows you to connect your [Ohme](https://ohme-ev.com/) EV charger to Home Assistant.


## Prerequisites

- Ah Ohme account. If you signed up to Ohme with a third party account like Google, you will need to [reset your password](https://api.ohme.io/fleet/index.html#/authentication/forgotten-password) before configuring this integration.


## Supported devices

The following devices are known to be supported by the integration:
- Ohme Home Pro
- Ohme Home
- Ohme Go
- Ohme ePod


{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}
{% configuration_basic %}
Email:
    description: "Email to log in to your Ohme account."
Password:
    description: "Password to log in to your Ohme account."
{% endconfiguration_basic %}


## Supported functionality

### Entities

The Ohme integration provides the following entities.

#### Buttons

- **Approve charge**
  - **Description**: If sensor **Status** is `Pending approval`, this will approve the charge.
  - **Available for devices**: all

#### Numbers

- **Target percentage**
  - **Description**: Sets the charge target for your vehicle.
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Preconditioning duration**
  - **Description**: Defines how long to precondition your vehicle before the target time. `0` means preconditioning is disabled.
  - **Available for devices**: all

#### Selects

- **Charger mode**
  - **Description**: Sets the mode of the charger. Possible options: `Smart charge`, `Max charge`, `Paused`. This is only available with a vehicle plugged in.
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Vehicle**
  - **Description**: Select the vehicle to charge. This will show vehicles configured in the Ohme app.
  - **Available for devices**: all

#### Sensors

- **Status**
  - **Description**: Current status of the charger. Possible states: `Unplugged`, `Pending approval`, `Plugged in`, `Charging`, `Finished charging`.
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Power**
  - **Description**: Power draw from the charger in kW.
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Current**
  - **Description**: Current draw from the charger in amperes.
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Energy**
  - **Description**: Energy consumption of the charger in kWh.
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Voltage**
  - **Description**: Voltage supplied to the charger. This is only available when a vehicle is connected.
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Charge slot list**
  - **Description**: A list of charge slots for the plan generated by Ohme. This is only available when a charge is in progress.
  - **Available for devices**: all

#### Switches

- **Price cap**
  - **Description**: Prevents charging when the electricity price exceeds a defined threshold. The threshold can be set by the service `ohme.set_price_cap`. ***Not available with some energy providers and tariffs.***
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Lock buttons**
  - **Description**: Disable the controls on the device.
  - **Available for devices**: all
- **Require approval**
  - **Description**: Require approval every time a vehicle is plugged in.
  - **Available for devices**: Home Pro
- **Sleep when inactive**
  - **Description**: Turn off the screen of the device after a few minutes of inactivity.
  - **Available for devices**: Home Pro

#### Times

- **Target time**
  - **Description**: Sets the time you need your vehicle charged by.
  - **Available for devices**: all

## Actions

The integration provides the following actions.

### Action: List charge slots

The `ohme.list_charge_slots` action is used to fetch a list of charge slots from your charger. Charge slots will only be returned if a charge is in progress.

| Data attribute         | Optional | Description                                                  |
|------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `config_entry`         | No       | The config entry of the account to get the charge list from. |

### Action: Set price cap

The `ohme.set_price_cap` action is used to set the price cap threshold. This can be toggled by the switch **Price cap**.

| Data attribute         | Optional | Description                                                 |
|------------------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| `config_entry`         | No       | The config entry of the account to apply the price cap to.  |
| `price_cap`            | No       | Threshold in 1/100ths of your local currency.               |


## Use cases

This integration enables several use cases to optimise efficiency of a solar and/or battery storage system.

### Solar charging
Use the charger mode to maximize solar consumption:
- Set the charger to "Paused" when solar production is low
- Switch to "Max charge" during peak solar hours

### Battery storage
If you have a home battery system:
- Charge your EV when the battery is above certain capacity
- Pause EV charging when the battery needs replenishing

## Examples

### Send a notification on status change

To be notified when the status of the charger changes, for example when a vehicle is plugged in, you can use an automation.

{% raw %}
```yaml
# Example automation
triggers:
  - trigger: state
    entity_id:
      - sensor.ohme_home_pro_status
    from: unplugged
actions:
  - action: notify.mobile_app_iphone
    data:
      message: "Vehicle plugged in"
```
{% endraw %}


## Troubleshooting

### Entities are shown as unavailable
You may need to power cycle your charger. Please see the [manufactuer's guidance](https://ohme-ev.com/support/my-charger-is-offline/) for the procedure.

## Data updates

This integration fetches data every 30 seconds with the following exceptions:
- CT readings are fetched every minute.
- Device settings are fetched every 30 minutes.

## Known limitations

The integration does not provide the ability to manage vehicles or routines, which can instead be managed on the manufacturer's app.

## Removing the integration

This integration follows standard integration removal. No extra steps are required.

{% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}
